All right, cool, so
let's start with Exercise 5 now.
Now we're going to be using
eventless transitions to refactor or
simplify the guard logic a little bit.
We're gonna be doing two things.
First, we're going to add an eventless
transition in the running state,
that would transition to expired
as soon as the timer expires.
So if you look at the current
machine over here,
Right now, that tick,
it's going to keep ticking and
we're going to have the same
problem as the previous exercise.
So instead,
what we want to do is we want to add an
eventless transition that always checks.
It's basically going to ask hey,
did the elapsed time exceed the duration?
And so we're no longer gonna
have a guard on this tick,
instead we're going to have a guard
on that eventless transition.
So if so, go to the expired state.
If not, then basically don't do anything.
And also yeah, we're going to be removing
that guard from the tick transition and
so you'll see how basically
that's going to simplify things.
Any questions about this
exercise before we get started?
>> David, can you explain when
the always actions get fired?
Is it whenever there's a new event or
is it when context changes?
Or when do those always
actions actually get fired?
What's the mechanism?
>> That's a good question.
So the question was about when do
eventless transitions basically get fired?
If you go to the SEXML algorithm,
it could be a little bit hairy so
we're not going to do that.
Instead I'll outline
the logic actually over here.
I'll be using Excalidraw for this.
So let's say that we're in some sort of,
what do we call that state?
The running state, okay?
So we're in the running states and
then a tick event happens.
What's going to happen is
once that event happens,
we're going to calculate the next state.
In this case, it's still running.
But immediately after that,
we are going to check
the eventless transitions.
If there are no eventless transitions
to take, then we're done,
we're on the running states.
So otherwise, if there isn't
eventless transition to be taken,
then we evaluate that so
it might go from running immediately
to expired for instance.
So in other words,
the state is calculated and
right after the state is calculated,
you check the eventless transitions.
>> So what do you mean by right
after state being calculated is all
actions are done,
only after actions are completed?
>> The question was about just
clarification around what
happens over here.
So when the state is calculated,
you get a state object,
you get the context,
the value actions that might happen.
And then the eventless
transitions are checked and so
you could think of it
sort of as a while loop.
So it's saying while there
are still eventless transitions,
basically keep trying to transition.
So all of this happens
synchronously by the way.
Does that answer your question?
>> Actually, I was wondering,
I was thinking eventless transitions shall
be used before the other
actions are performed.
>> The question was about you want
an eventless transition to occur before
actions are performed?
>> Right.
>> Okay, so that's a modeling problem.
Basically, you want to model a state
in which a eventless transition
is taken in a state in which
the actions are executed.
So instead of trying to juggle around
the order, guess like, is this gonna
happen before this, it's usually better
to split it up into different states.
So that you could say, execute these
actions after taking this eventless
transition because those actions
might be on the entry of that state.